Cool.
So right now let's move forward and let's start creating our first custom block in our fictional block
theme folder.
Let's go ahead and create a subfolder.
Now the name doesn't matter.
You could make up any name, but just so we're on the same page, let's name this subfolder our dash
blocks.
So inside the our blocks folder, let's create a new file.
Why don't we make up a name of banner dot js?
From here, let's write a little bit of boilerplate code to set up a new block.
So wp.
Now I want to type wp dot but vs code is trying to auto suggest different things so you actually have
to press escape and then dot.
So.
WP.
Dot blocks.
Dot register.
BLOCK type.
We're calling that function in the parentheses.
We're going to give it two things.
So a comma B.
The first thing we're going to give it is a name.
So quotes.
Now let's make up a name space that all of our blocks will use.
I'm going to make up a name space of maybe our block theme.
So that's the name space and then forward slash and now the name of this specific block.
So how about just banner?
Cool.
Now the second argument that we provide here, so instead of the B placeholder, it would just be an
object with a few options.
So in the curly brackets, let's drop down.
Let's give it a title property.
How about just banner comma?
Let's give it a property of edit.
Let's point towards a function that doesn't exist, but a function that we'll set up and create in about
20 seconds from now.
Let's call it edit component comma.
Let's have a property named Save Colon.
Let's also set that to a function that doesn't exist yet, but we can create in just a moment.
So maybe save component.
Cool.
Now let's go create those functions.
So down below all of the other code function.
Edit component parentheses.
Curly brackets do the same thing for function save component in terms of what our block outputs or saves
for.
Now, we can circle back to this later, but for now let's just have it.
Return a paragraph.
So a p tag.
Opening and closing that says this is from our block.
Again, we will circle back to this and actually return or generate HTML.
That makes sense, but this will just be a placeholder for now.
Cool.
Now, in terms of the edit component, we want this to return a bit of HTML or js.
That will create this visual appearance.
Mean go back to the homepage.
That will create this appearance.
Right.
The banner.
So let me show you what I would do inside the edit component function.
This is what's going to show up in the admin editor, the block editor screen.
Let's just say return now parentheses for multiple lines of x.
In between the parentheses we can drop down and now we don't need to reinvent the wheel.
We already have this HTML laying around, so let's just copy and paste it and then adjust it to work
as JSA X.
So within the WordPress directory for this website, if we go into WB content themes, you and I have
already created a fictional university theme together, step by step.
So let's just dig in to that folder.
Or better yet, let's just open up that folder entirely in verse code.
Cool.
So this window is the traditional fictional university theme in this folder.
Just jump into front page, top up.
And my point here is that we've already set this up, this page banner area, right?
So from lines three, two lines 11.
Just copy that into your clipboard and then back in the JavaScript file that we're creating together.
When we're returning.
And then inside the parentheses, just paste in your clipboard.
And now we just need to adjust this a little bit so that it works as just X instead of HTML.
So, first of all, enjoy sex.
You can't say class equals.
It needs to be class.
Name equals.
So what I like to do is just select the first instance of class and then you can press control D on
windows or command D on Mac and just press that again and again and again until you've selected all
instances of class like this.
At this point, you could retype in class, or you can just press the right facing arrow key on your
keyboard and then type in uppercase name.
Well.
So all of those have been fixed.
Next, right before the closing, divs, we see an element, a link.
Let's just change the ref to no longer use P for now.
Just change the ref value to be a hashtag placeholder like this.
And then finally, I believe the only other change we need to make is on this second opening div with
a class of page banner.
Big image.
We need to address an inline style syntax in gsx.
First of all, let's hollow this out so that it no longer uses PE at all.
So inside the URL, get rid of this opening p tag.
Get rid of the echo and the git theme file.
You are right in the opening parentheses.
I'm getting rid of that.
So now it's just you URL opening parentheses quotes.
And then after the dot jpeg quote, get rid of this closing parentheses and this closing p tag.
So now this is just valid CSS that isn't using PHP at all.
However, now we need to convert it from literal CC into a JavaScript object that will work with JSF.
So let's get rid of the semicolon at the end of the line of CC here.
Okay.
Next.
Instead of this being a string of text, we need it to be an object.
So when it says style equals, it's no longer quotes.
Get rid of the opening quote.
It's to opening curly brackets.
So the first is to just include JavaScript data in JSF.
The second is for an object of styles.
So at the end here, get rid of the closing double quote and just have two closing curly brackets.
Okay.
Next, there is no such thing as background dash image in JSF.
Instead it's background squished together all one word uppercase.
I image like this background image.
Next for the value it needs to be a string of text.
So I'm going to place a double quote at the start of the URL and then after the dot jpeg quote parentheses
right here, I'll have a double quote.
Now, in terms of the path where we're actually trying to point towards to find this image.
Right, this background image here, well, let's just look in our theme folder.
Now, we don't have that image in our current theme folder, but let's just borrow it from the fictional
university theme that we've already created.
So in other words, in about 30 seconds from now, we can create a folder named images that will be
sitting right here and they will have a JPEG named Library Hero.
But to make that work at the start of this path, we would just point to the beginning of our domain
and then WP dash content slash themes and then the name of your theme.
So fictional block theme.
Now don't worry.
Later on we will make this dynamic so that the user can upload a new image in the editor screen or choose
an image that's in their media library.
But for this lesson, just to get something up and running, this should do the trick.
If your installation of WordPress doesn't live at the root of your domain and it lives in a subfolder,
then obviously account for that at the beginning of this URL path that we're temporarily hard coding.
Right?
This is not production ready code, but for now, that's okay.
Cool.
Let's go ahead and give that a save.
And now we need to do two things.
Number one, we need to have an images folder in our theme now.
But number two, we need a way to transport all this gsx into regular JavaScript that the web browser
can understand in order to accomplish both of those things.
Let's just go borrow some files and folders from our traditional fictional university theme.
So in WP content themes, here is the original traditional theme that we built together.
Let's just dig into that folder.
Okay.
Now, in this window, this is the new theme, the block theme that we're building.
We only have these basic files so far, and we just want to move over a few files and folders into the
new folder.
So do this with me in our traditional theme folder.
Let's move over the build folder, the CSC folder, the images folder, the I.N.S. folder template parts
folder and the SRT folder.
So just every single subfolder in our original theme, just move those over or copy and paste or duplicate
those over into our new theme.
So I'm just going to alt drag those into my new theme folder.
Right.
So in our new block theme now all those folders show up in the sidebar.
I also want you to move over to individual files from the old original theme.
So, number one, I want you to move over functions, TCP IP.
And number two, I want you to move over package JSON.
So those two files package that JSON functions dot B, I'll move those over as well.
Okay.
Now, those are all of the files that we need to move at this point.
I know there's a lot of moving pieces, so let me discuss what everything is.
First of all, in package dot JSON.
If you were starting fresh and you weren't converting an existing traditional theme, you wouldn't need
to copy over an existing packaged JSON file.
I'm just copying this over because it has basic scripts.
For example, this powers the home page slideshow.
This is the base of my CSA.
This is what I'm using to perform network requests, so on and so forth.
But these are all opinionated choices.
The only package that you truly need here is at simple WordPress slash scripts.
But I brought over the entire file because we're working on the same theme, right?
So we're going to want these same dependencies.
Okay.
Other than that, you might be wondering, hey, why did we move over?
Functions dot php don't block themes not use php.
Well, no, they absolutely use PHP.
In fact, if you go in to the official 2022 theme, you'll see that it indeed has a functioning TCP
IP file.
Just like always, that's how you can run certain actions or certain filters you can hook on to all
sorts of different WordPress events.
Right.
That's where you enable certain features.
Really?
That's where you customize anything and everything.
So that hasn't changed at all in the move from a traditional theme to a block theme.
Cool.
Now let's move forward.
So here's what we want to do.
We can get rid of the build task within our package dot JSON file.
So jump into packages that JSON if you haven't already.
Get rid of the build task.
The only reason we're getting rid of it is just temporarily.
And that's because we want to start modifying the START script.
Let me explain what in the world I'm talking about.
So by default, the app WordPress Scripts package is going to look in your CRC folder for a file named
index dot.
Jess Right.
And it's going to do trans pile it, bundle it up.
It'll take care of everything for you.
However, we also want to tell it to look in our custom folder of our blocks and we want it to look
at our banner dot JSE file.
So here's what you can do on the start task.
Let's say WP scripts start, but then we want to manually spell out which files to work with.
So yes, we do still want to look in the CRC folder for index JS, but then a space.
We also want to work with our dash blocks slash banner dot Jess.
This way we're getting all of that great automatic WordPress scripts functionality, but we can have
multiple files, multiple entry points leading to multiple output files.
So check this out if we save this file, but now we just need to run NPM install, so we just need to
run that once.
It's going to install all of the dependencies from our package, that JSON file.
Once that finishes now we can just run the start task.
So just NPM run start.
Now as soon as that finishes, well, it's going to continue to run in the background, watching for
changes.
But as soon as the initial processing finishes.
Now you can look in the build folder and you'll see that there's a file named -- Dot Jess.
So this has trans piled our JS acts into regular JavaScript that the browser can understand.
So now we just need to register our custom block type to use this JavaScript asset in the editor to
make that happen.
We just need to jump in to our functions dot AP file.
So functions dot b.
Let's scroll down to the very, very bottom and we want to add an action on the init hook and let's
just name the function banner block semicolon, create a function with that names or function banner
block.
First we want to register a JavaScript file, then we want to register a block type.
So WP register script semicolon.
In the parentheses we're going to give it three things.
So first we give it a name.
And this is not the name of the block, this is the name of just the JavaScript asset.
So we could call it banner block script.
The second thing we give it is a path to the JavaScript file.
So let's say get style sheet directory, you try parentheses to call that concatenate on.
So period quotes look inside the build folder slash build slash banner dot Jess.
The third and final thing we give it is an array of dependencies.
So array lets say quotes wp dash blocks, comma quotes wp dash editor.
Then on a new line of code.
Now that we've registered the JavaScript file, we can register our block type.
So register block type semicolon.
We're going to give it two things.
The first thing we give it is the name, space and a name.
So let's say our block theme, remember, that's the namespace we chose earlier, slash the name of
this specific block.
Banner.
The second thing we give it is an array.
So array parentheses you can drop down.
We only need to give it one property of editor script and just set that to equal the name we chose here.
So quotes banner block script.
We can give this a save and then back in the admin dashboard, we need to switch to our new theme because
I was still using the traditional theme.
So appearance.
Let me switch to the block theme activated.
Go and do a blog post and just start creating a post or editing a post.
And if I try to add a new block here and type slash and start searching for banner, there you see it
in if I try to use it, cool.
There is the content, but it's missing our styling.
R c ss This is really easy to fix.
We just go back into functions dot b search for our function named university features.
Within this function, let's add a new line and say add theme support semicolon.
The thing we want to enable is called quotes editor dash styles.
Now again, if you were building a separate plug in instead of this unified theme approach I'm taking,
you wouldn't load your site wide cc in the admin like this, right?
You would take the time to split out just the success that you need just to power this one block Right.
And then you would load the assets individually, just like we did in the chapter when we built our
independent standalone plug ins with of a block type.
In this case, we don't want to take the time to split out all of the success that has already been
written for this existing theme, right?
We already have perfect CC that has all of the styles we want.
So I'm just going to load that entire bit of CC in the admin block.
Editor So to do this right below this line we just added, you say add editor style, parentheses,
semicolon, and now we can give this an array.
So quotes.
The first item will be look in the build folder for style dash index access comma quotes, look in the
build folder for simply indexed.
But then at the very beginning, let's add in a Google address that will pull in the custom Google fonts
to find the Google address you want to copy and paste.
Just scroll up a bit and you're just looking for this custom Google Fonts line around line 51, and
this is the address we're interested in.
So it begins with slash slash.
Just highlight to the end of that address.
It ends in 700 I so I'll copy that.
Then back down in the array of styles we're trying to load, we want the very first one.
So another pair of quotes, comma, just paste in that value, but make sure that the beginning of it
begins with each piece colon, slash, slash, just like this.
If we give that a save, we can then refresh the block editor screen.
Woops.
Let me add in that block again.
I didn't save my content.
So if I add in the banner block, perfect.
We loaded our entire global stylesheet that already existed and it's already perfect and it's not being
applied to the outer shell, the outer UI of the admin.
It's only being applied to the actual editor content.
So while I wouldn't use this approach if I was creating actual, you know, plug in block types to be
distributed to a wide audience, I really like this approach for building sort of a content management
system, bespoke website for a client, right, where maybe you're using something like Tailwind CC
and you're really authoring custom.
CC Right.
And you're not styling everything for each block.
You have a lot of reusable utility classes, so you're just going to end up with one global CSV file
that you can use on both the front end and the what you see is what you get.
Ed I've had really good luck with this approach, but as always, there's ten or 100 different ways
to achieve something in WordPress anyways that's going to bring this lesson to a close.
In our very next lesson, we're going to begin to make this content so that you can actually click on
it and begin, you know, back spacing and typing in custom values, choosing custom colors or a custom
background image, so on and so forth.
Let's keep things rolling and I'll see you then.